EE 101 Differential and Integral Calculus 
Analytic geometry, functions and limits, derivatives, techniques and applications of differentiation,
logarithmic and trigonometric functions. Definite and indefinite integrals, techniques of integration, with
applications in sciences and engineering.

EE 102 Computational Thinking 
Introduction to the central idea of computational thinking as it applies to a wide variety of human
endeavors, including natural and physical sciences; computational mathematics with Sage, Matlab, and
Mathematica; introduction to programming with Python.

EE 103 Engineering Physics 
Vectors. Motion in one and two dimensions. Newton's laws and its applications. Work and energy.
Conservation of mechanical energy. Momentum and motion of systems. Static equilibrium of rigid
bodies. Rotation and angular momentum. Newton's law universal gravitation.

EE 104 Computing Literacy 
Email and IM usage and etiquette; Computer security basics; Mobile and Cloud computing basics;
Google apps and services: Docs, Sheets, Slides, Drive, Calendar, Keep, Scholar; Apple apps and services.

EE 105 Engineering Design 
Introduction; The Design Process; Creative style; Brainstorming. Effective graphic and verbal
communication of design ideas to groups and individuals, Student will learn how to research an
engineering problem, where to find information and how to assess its validity, Students will be give an
overview of key achievements in the history of engineering. There will also be stories with ethical
implications.

EE 106 Turkish Language I 
To teach the importance of language in human and social life; showing the classification of languages
and teaching of Turkish among the world languages; to teach the characteristics of Turkish in terms of
phonology, morphology, syntax; to analyze spelling and writing rules of Turkish.

EE 107 Linear Algebra with Applications 
Systems of linear equations, matrix algebra, determinants, vector spaces and subspaces, basis and
dimension, linear transformations, eigenvalues and eigenvectors, diagonalization, and orthogonality;
singular-value decomposition.

EE 108 Computational Mathematics 
A function approach integrating algebra, trigonometry, and differential calculus; properties and graphs
of polynomial, rational, exponential, and logarithmic functions; properties and graphs of trigonometric
functions; functions and limits; derivatives; techniques and applications of differentiation; 
logarithmicand trigonometric functions; Integral calculus, including definite and indefinite integrals; 
techniques of integration, with applications in social and life sciences.

EE 109 Computer Aided Design 
Introduction to computer aided technical drawing. Basic drawing functions and multi-view projection.
Sectioning and conventions. General concepts in 3D modelling. Creating parts in 3D design and solid
modeling. Transfering 3D parts to drafting detailing. Assembly modelling and assembling parts. Surface
modelling.

EE 110 Electronic Physics and Systems 
In this course the principles of electrical and electronical engineering and basic technology will be
introduced. Application examples of the knowledge on engineering will be given. In addition, electric
machinery, power electronics, and electrical driving circuits will be introduced according to the
mechanical engineering requirements.

EE 111 Human Body 
The structure and functions of macro molecules and proteins. The structures and functions of cells.
Cellular respiration, transport, communication. Energy production, flow, use and photosynthesis.
Human genetics and physiology. Biotechnology.

EE 112 Turkish Language II 
To teach spelling, writing and punctuation rules, to teach basic elements of writing essays, to introduce
Turkısh and World literary canons; to teach writing creative texts of literature especially story, poem and
essay ; to teach writing scientific paper and texts; To analyse expression and punctuation disorders, to
contribute lectures.

EE 201 Differential Equations 
First and second order differential equations; separation of variables; linear differential equations;
systems of first order equations; nonlinear differential equations and stability

EE 202 Electrical Circuits 
Circuit elements and Kirchhoffs laws. Analysis of resistive circuits. Network theorems. Solutions of linear
time-invariant differential equations. Analysis of first and second order circuits. Operational Amplifiers.
Sinusoidal steady-state analysis, power calculations and balanced three-phase circuits.

EE 203 Signal and Systems 
An introduction to continuous and discrete time signals and systems. Study of the Fourier transform,
Fourier series, z-transforms, and the fast Fourier transform. Sampling theorems for continuous to
discrete-time conversion. Difference equations for digital signal processing systems, digital system
realizations with block diagrams, analysis of transient and steady state responses, and connections to
other areas in science and engineering

EE 204 General English I 
The English of the terms and concepts encountered in various branches of engineering are examined in
depth, and for the proper use of these terms, Turkish-English bilingual translations are explained. English
language training for students starts from simple forms and intended to develop over time.

EE 205 Ataturk’s Principles and History of Revolution I 
The Collapse of the Ottoman Empire, Tanzimat and Reform Edict, I. and II. Constitutional Era, Tripoli and
Balkan Wars, Worl War I, Mudros Armistice, War of Independence; Amasya Circular, National
Congresses, Establishment of Turkish Grand National Assembly, Declaration of Republic

EE 201 Digital Logic Design 
Principles and techniques of designing digital systems. Boolean algebra, state machines, simplification of
switching expressions, and introductory computer arithmetic. Construct and analyze the operation of a
latch, flip-flop and its application in synchronous

EE 206 Vector Calculus 
Calculus of functions of several variables; vector-valued functions; scalar and vector fields; integration
along paths, double and triple integrals; integration over surfaces and applications of integrals; integral
theorems of vector calculus; infinite series; Fourier series; integrals and transforms; partial differential
equations

EE 207 Electronics 
Fundamental concepts in electronics. Diode, BJT and FET Circuits; design using ideal operational
amplifiers; feedback; frequency response; biasing; current sources and mirrors; small-signal analysis;
design of operational amplifiers.

EE 208  General English II 
The English terms and concepts encountered are examined in depth and Turkish-English bilingual
translations are used in order to use the concepts correctly. To be able to master professional English
language, the students are informed about grammatical structures of sentences, spelling and
pronunciation.

EE 209 Ataturk’s Principles and History of Revolution II 
Revolutions in Turkish politics, political parties and multi-party system attempts, revolutions in law,
reorganization of public life, reforms in economics, Turkish foreign policy 1923-1938, Turkish domestic
and international politics in post-Atatürk era.

EE 301 Probability Theory and Stochastic Processes 
This course provides a foundation in the theory and applications of probability and stochastic processes
and an understanding of the mathematical techniques relating to random processes in the areas of
signal processing, detection, estimation, and communication. Topics include the axioms of probability,
random variables, and distribution functions; functions and sequences of random variables; stochastic
processes; and representations of random processes.

EE 302 Electronics Circuits 
Stability and response of feedback amplifier, wideband amplifier, operational amplifier characteristics,
waveform generators and wave shaping, nonlinear circuit applications, signal generators, andphotolithography. 
Design of analog electronic circuits, circuit simulation, response characterization, and printed circuit 
construction

EE 303 Electromagnetics 
Basic electrical and magnetic phenomena, as well as laws for electrical circuits, both at direct current
and alternating current. The course gives a thorough introduction to Maxwell's equations, and how to
use them to derive the characteristics of electromagnetic waves.

EE 304 Information Theory 
An introduction to mathematics of information theory. We will cover both classical and modern topics,
including information entropy, lossless data compression, binary hypothesis testing, channel coding, and
lossy data compression.

EE 305 Computer Architecture 
Includes the organization and architecture of computer systems hardware; instruction set architectures;
addressing modes; register transfer notation; processor design and computer arithmetic; memory
systems; hardware implementations of virtual memory, and input/output control and devices

EE 306 Cryptographic Engineering 
This course is designed for computer science, computer engineering, electrical engineering, and
mathematics students interested in understanding, modeling, designing, developing, testing, and
validating cryptographic software and hardware. We study algorithms, methods, and techniques in
order to create state-of-art cryptographic embedded software and hardware using common platforms
and technologies.

EE 401 Capstone Project I 
Student groups design a significant computerbased project. Multiple groups may cooperate toward one
large project. Each group works independently; interaction among groups is via interface specifications
and informal meetings.

EE 402 Control Systems 
Differential equations, Laplace transforms, transfer functions, poles and zeros, state space models,
modeling, first and second order systems, stability, steady-state errors, root locus, Bode and Nyquist
plots, transient response analysis and design, PID control, lead lag compensation, simple frequency
response techniques. Stabilising feedback control for transfer function and state-space models

EE 403 Capstone Project II 
Student groups design a significant computerbased project. Multiple groups may cooperate toward one
large project. Each group works independently; interaction among groups is via interface specifications
and informal meetings.

EE 404 Communications 
Evolution of radio communications and broadcast systems, new trends, economics of radio
communications. Spectrum usage. Cellular concept, coverage, frequency re-use, interference. Broadcast
concepts. Radio propagation. Large scale path loss, small scale fading and multipath. Modulation
techniques for mobile radio and broadcast. Multiple access techniques for wireless communications.
Networking and planning. Recent topics on wireless communications.

EE 405 Directed Research 
The students are involved in projects that are going on research centers. They are required to attend
meetings, develop code, help to build devices, and give presentations as needed. The lecturer covers
basic research techniques, search, writing papers in LaTeX, and working with data.

EE 406 Engineering Ethics 
The origins of ethical thought; ethical principles and basic theories; personal, academic and professional
ethics for engineers; environmental ethics; ethical implications of technology, computer ethics; ethics in
research and experimentation.

EE 407 Photonics 
Fundamental principles of lasers, optical data processing, nonlinear optics, optical communications,
optical computing, optical data storage, optical system design and holography. These are the
fundamental enabling technologies for future high-speed communication systems including high
performance telecommunication and data communication networks.

EE 408 Introduction to MEMS 
Microelectromechanical devices (MEMS), such as pressure sensors, accelerometers, rate gyroscopes,
and opto-mechanical assemblies and displays, require knowledge of a broad range of disciplines, from
microfabrication to mechanics to electromagnetism. This course presents an introduction to this broad
field, using examples, design projects, and hands-on labs drawn from real-world MEMS applications

EE 409 Medical Instrumentation 
Medical terminology. General diagnostics. Electrophysical methods like ECG, EEG, EMG, defibrillator and
pacemaker. Measurement techniques for respiration and circulation. Methods for intensive monitoring.
clinical/chemical measurement techniques. Disinfection/sterilisation, sensors. Imaging techniques: X-
rays, nuclear medicine, ultrasound, magnetic resonance. Supporting instrumentation like incubator,
respirator, anaesthesia machine and dialysis machine. Surgical techniques with diathermy and laser.

EE 410 Digital Signal Processing
Fundamental principles of DT systems and signals, in both time and Fourier domains, are presented.
These are followed by modern applications of digital signal processing (e.g telecommunications).
Throughout the course, the focus is on developing techniques and algorithms for solving discrete-time
signal processing problems.
