CENG 101 Differential and Integral Calculus 
Analytic geometry, functions and limits, derivatives, techniques and applications of differentiation,
logarithmic and trigonometric functions. Definite and indefinite integrals, techniques of integration,
with applications in sciences and engineering.

CENG 102 Computational Thinking 
Introduction to the central idea of computational thinking as it applies to a wide variety of human
endeavors, including natural and physical sciences; computational mathematics with Sage, Matlab,
and Mathematica; introduction to programming with Python.

CENG 103 Engineering Physics 
Vectors. Motion in one and two dimensions. Newton's laws and its applications. Work and energy.
Conservation of mechanical energy. Momentum and motion of systems. Static equilibrium of rigid
bodies. Rotation and angular momentum. Newton's law universal gravitation.

CENG 104 Computing Literacy 
Email and IM usage and etiquette; Computer security basics; Mobile and Cloud computing basics;
Google apps and services: Docs, Sheets, Slides, Drive, Calendar, Keep, Scholar; Apple apps and
services.

CENG 105 Engineering Design
Introduction; The Design Process, Creative style; Brainstorming. Effective graphic and verbal
communication of design ideas to groups and individuals, Student will learn how to research an
engineering problem, where to find information and how to assess its validity, Students will be give
an overview of key achievements in the history of engineering. There will also be stories with ethical
implications.

CENG 106 Turkish Language-I
To teach the importance of language in human and social life; showing the classification of languages
and teaching of Turkish among the world languages; to teach the characteristics of Turkısh in terms
of phonology, morphology, syntax; to analyze spelling and writing rules of Turkish.

CENG 107 Linear Algebra With Applications 
Systems of linear equations, matrix algebra, determinants, vector spaces and subspaces, basis and
dimension, linear transformations, eigenvalues and eigenvectors, diagonalization, and orthogonality;
singular-value decomposition.

CENG 108 Computational Mathematics
Introduction to the theoretical underpinnings of computer science and engineering. Topics include
propositional predicate logic, set theory, functions and relations, counting, mathematical induction,
1recursion, generating functions, graph theory and algorithms. Fundamentals of groups, rings, fields,
number theory and cryptography. Computational tools such as Python, Sage, and Mathematica will
be be used to illustrate properties the mathematical objects and structures.

CENG 109 Electronic Physics And Systems
In this course the principles of electrical and electronical engineering and basic technology will be
introduced. Application examples of the knowledge on engineering will be given. In addition, electric
machinery, power electronics, and electrical driving circuits will be introduced according to the
mechanical engineering requirements

CENG 110 Human Body
The basic functions of human body. The circulatory, digestive, endocrine, immune and lymphatic
systems. The muscular, skeletal and respiratory systems. Human brain, heart, kidneys, liver and
lungs. Anatomy and functions of the eye. Properties of human vision. Anatomy and functions the ear.
Properties of hearing and balance. Human genetics and physiology.

CENG 111 Computer Aided Design
Introduction to computer aided technical drawing. Basic drawing functions and multi-view
projection. Sectioning and conventions. General concepts in 3D modelling. Creating parts in 3D
design and solid modeling. Transfering 3D parts to drafting detailing. Assembly modelling and
assembling parts. Surface modelling.

CENG 112 Turkish Language-II
To teach spelling, writing and punctuation rules, to teach basic elements of writing essays, to
introduce Turkısh and World literary canons; to teach writing creative texts of literature especially
story, poem and essay ; to teach writing scientific paper and texts; To analyse expression and
punctuation disorders, to contribute lectures.

CENG 201 Problem Solving With Computers In C
Fundamental building blocks for solving problems using computers. Topics include basic computer
organization and programming constructs: memory CPU, binary arithmetic, variables, expressions,
statements, conditionals, iteration, functions, parameters, recursion, primitive and composite data
types, and basic operating system and debugging tool.

CENG 202 Digital Logic Design
Assembly language programming and advanced computer organization; Digital logic design topics
including gates, combinational circuits, flip-flops, and the design and analysis of sequential circuits.

CENG 203 Signals and Systems
Two-port network parameters; small-signal models of nonlinear devices; transistor amplifier circuits;
frequency response of amplifiers; non-ideal op-amps; modulation, bandwidth, signals; Fourier
analysis.

CENG 204 General English I
The English of the terms and concepts encountered in various branches of engineering are examined
in depth, and for the proper use of these terms, Turkish-English bilingual translations are explained.
English language training for students starts from simple forms and intended to develop over time.

CENG 205 Ataturk's Principles And History Of Turkish Revolution
The Collapse of the Ottoman Empire, Tanzimat and Reform Edict, I. and II. Constitutional Era, Tripoli
and Balkan Wars, Worl War I, Mudros Armistice, War of Independence; Amasya Circular, National
Congresses, Establishment of Turkish Grand National Assembly, Declaration of Republic

CENG 206 Problem Solving With Computers In C++ 
Intermediate building blocks for solving problems using computers. Topics include intermediate
object-oriented programming, data structures, object- oriented design, algorithms for manipulating
these data structures and their run-time analyses. Data structures introduced include stacks, queues,
lists, trees, and sets.

CENG 207 Digital System Design
Design of synchronous digital systems: timing diagrams, propagation delay, latches and flip-flops,
shift registers and counters, Mealy/Moore finite state machines, Verilog, 2-phase clocking, timing
analysis, CMOS implementation, S- RAM, RAM-based designs, ASM charts, state minimization.

CENG 208 Principals of Artificial Intelligence 
Introduction to the field of artificial intelligence, which seeks to understand and build intelligent
computational systems. Topics include intelligent agents, problem solving and heuristic search,
knowledge representation and reasoning, uncertainty, probabilistic reasoning, and applications of AI.

CENG 209 General English II
The English terms and concepts encountered are examined in depth and Turkish-English bilingual
translations are used in order to use the concepts correctly. To be able to master professional English
language, the students are informed about grammatical structures of sentences, spelling and
pronunciation.

CENG 210 Ataturk's Principles And History Of Turkish Revolution II 
Revolutions in Turkish politics, political parties and multi-party system attempts, revolutions in law,
reorganization of public life, reforms in economics, Turkish foreign policy 1923-1938, Turkish
domestic and international politics in post-Atatürk era.

CENG 211 Data Structures And Algorithms 
The study of data structures and their applications. Correctness proofs and techniques for the design
of correct programs. Internal and external searching. Hashing and height balanced trees. Analysis of
sorting algorithms. Memory management. Graph traversal techniques and their applications.

CENG 301 Advanced Digital System Design 
Introduction to computer-aided simulation and synthesis tools for VLSI. VLSI system design flow, role
of CAD tools, layout synthesis, circuit simulation, logic simulation, logic synthesis, behavior synthesis
and test synthesis.

CENG 302 Machine Learning 
Covers the most important techniques of machine learning (ML) and includes discussions of:
wellposed learning problems; artificial neural networks; concept learning and general to specific
ordering; decision tree learning; genetic algorithms; Bayesian learning; analytical learning; and
others.

CENG 303 Microprocessor System Design 
This class is focused on the principles and practices of modern embedded systems design. In class,
we will focus on computer architecture beyond the CPU, fundamentals of the hardware/software
interface, techniques for sensing and controlling the physical world, and a few other topics. The labs
and project require a substantial amount of time -- this is a lab-intensive class.

CENG 304 Computer Architecture 
Introduction to the architecture of computer systems. Topics include: central processing units,
memory systems, channels and controllers, peripheral devices, interrupt systems, software versus
hardware trade-offs.

CENG 305 Cryptographic Engineering 
An introduction to the basic concepts and techniques of cryptography and cryptanalysis. Topics
include: The Shannon Theory, classical systems, the data encryption standard, the advanced
encryption standard, public key systems, digital signatures, file security.

CENG 401 Capstone Project I
Student groups design a significant computerbased project. Multiple groups may cooperate toward
one large project. Each group works independently; interaction among groups is via interface
specifications and informal meetings.

CENG 402 VHDL and FPGA System Design 
Introduction to VHDL basic elements. VHDL simulation concepts. VHDL concurrent statements with
examples and applications. VHDL subprograms, packages, libraries and design units. Writing VHDL for
synthesis. Writing VHDL for finite state machines. Design case studies involve popular FPGAs.

CENG 403 Capstone Project II 
Student groups design a significant computerbased project. Multiple groups may cooperate toward
one large project. Each group works independently; interaction among groups is via interface
specifications and informal meetings.

CENG 404 Human-Computer Interaction 
The study of human-computer interaction enables system architects to design useful, efficient, and
enjoyable computer interfaces. This course teaches the theory, design guidelines, programming
practices, and evaluation procedures behind effective human interaction with computers.

CENG 405 Directed Research 
The students are involved in projects that are going on research centers. They are required to attend
meetings, develop code, help to build devices, and give presentations as needed. The lecturer covers
basic research techniques, search, writing papers in LaTeX, and working with data.

CENG 405 Engineering Ethics 
The origins of ethical thought; ethical principles and basic theories; personal, academic and
professional ethics for engineers; environmental ethics; ethical implications of technology, computer
ethics; ethics in research and experimentation.

CENG 406 Biomedical Imaging
This course covers the physical principles of major in vivo bio-imaging modalities, i.e., ultrasound,
computed tomography, emission computed tomography, positron emission tomography and
magnetic resonance imaging. We will show how existing physical principles transcend into bio-
imaging and establish an important link into life sciences, illustrating the contributions physics can
make to life sciences.

CENG 407 Cyber-Physical Systems and Security 
Cyber-physical as a term explains much of the underlying theory and practice; it is the interplay of
physics and computation. Our understanding of the physical world through the models of classical
and quantum physics, together with our models of computation from analog to digital, helps us build
a better understanding of the cyber-physical world. Insights from physics, methods of complex
systems theory, and formal methods borrowed from various facets of mathematical and
computational sciences will help us to build reliable, safe, and secure systems.

CENG 408 Advanced Cryptography 
This is a course on methods, algorithms, techniques, and tools of cryptography. We study algorithmic
and mathematical aspects of cryptographic methods and protocols, such as secret-key cryptography,
public-key cryptography, hash functions, and digital signatures. We show how these techniques are
used to solve particular data and communication security problems. This course material is useful for
computer science, electrical engineering, and mathematics students who are interested in learning
how cryptographic algorithms and methods are embedded in information systems, providing
confidentiality, integrity, non-repudiation, and authenticity of stored and transmitted digital data.

CENG 409 Theoretical Computer Science (2+2), 5
Formal languages; finite automata and regular expressions; properties of regular languages;
pushdown automata and context-free grammars; properties of context-free languages; introduction
to computability and unsolvability. Introduction to Turing machines and computational complexity.

CENG 410 Computer Graphics 
Overview of OpenGL graphics standard, OpenGL state machine, other 3D graphics libraries, 3D
graphics pipeline, 3D transformations and clipping, color model, shading model, shadow algorithms,
texturing, curves and curved surfaces, graphics hardware, interaction devices and techniques.

CENG 411 Mobile Application Development 
An introduction to programming mobile computing devices. Students will learn about and study the
shift in software development from desktop to mobile device applications. Topics will include
5software engineering and design practices, advances in programming practice, and support tools for
mobile application development and testing. Students will develop and deploy mobile applications as
part of their course work.

CENG 412 Hardware Software Interfaces 
Issues in interfacing computing systems and software to practical I/O interfaces. Rapid response,
real-time events and management of tasks, threads, and scheduling required for efficient design of
embedded software and systems is discussed. Techniques for highly constrained systems.

CENG 413 Parallel Computing 
Fundamentals of high-performance computing and parallel algorithm design for numerical
computation. Topics include parallel architecture and clusters, parallel programming with
messagepassing libraries and threads, program parallelization methodologies, parallel performance
evaluation and optimization, parallel numerical algorithms and applications with different
performance trade-offs.

CENG 414 Data Mining 
Advanced course which introduces data mining concepts, principles and algorithms. Topics include
association analysis, classification, clustering, sequential pattern analysis, stream data mining, mining
complex types of data, multi-relational data mining, spatiotemporal data mining, social network
analysis, text mining, link analysis, data mining applications (bioinformatics, security, the Web,
software engineering) and trends in data mining.

CENG 415 Database Systems 
Database system architectures, relational data model, relational algebra, relational calculus, SQL,
QBE, query processing, integrity constraints (key constraints, referential integrity), database design,
ER and object-oriented data model, functional dependencies, lossless join and dependency
preserving decompositions, Boyce-Codd and Third Normal Forms.

CENG 416 Introduction to Robotics 
Dynamic modeling and control methods for robotic systems. LaGrangian method for deriving
equations of motion, introduction to the Jacobian, and modeling and control of forces and contact
dynamics at a robotic end effector. Laboratories encourage a problem-solving approach to control.

CENG 417 Biological and Artificial Vision 
Overview of computer vision problems and techniques for analyzing the content images and video.
Topics include image formation, edge detection, image segmentation, pattern recognition, texture
analysis, optical flow, stereo vision, shape representation and recovery techniques, issues in object
recognition, and case studies of practical vision systems.

CENG 418 Neuromorphic Engineering 
Neuromorphic systems carry out robust and efficient neural computation using hardware
implementations that operate in physical time. They are event- or data-driven, they employ low-
power, massively parallel hybrid analog/digital VLSI circuits, and operate using the same physics of
computation used by the nervous system. The simulation of neural systems using the artificial neural
networks on silicon are accomplished using methods of neuromorphic engineering.
